---
type: posts
layout: default
title: Getting Started
line: "Making this blog bilingual"
date:   2015-05-25 22:58:32
categories: jekyll update
name: post1
lang: en
---
A few weeks ago I met someone at a tech meetup who had recently relocated to the States from South America. Once we started chatting, she told me she was excited to see a thriving community of women in tech. Back home she really only heard of two women in tech, Marissa Meyers and Sheryll Sandburg. Those ladies certainly deserve name recognition, but she was so excited to know that there was a larger community of women making a name for themselves in tech. 

After that chat, I was inspired to finally start the blog I'd wanted to write about my own experiences, but also wanted to make it bilingual. After some research I came across articles about the new healthcare.gov website. The developers commissioned with creating this site used Jekyll, a simple, static site generator without a relational database. I was skeptical at first, but its ease and great documentation really made using jekyll a no brainer. As a single language blog, Jekyll is pretty much ready to go as soon as the gem is installed and ran, but making the blog multilingual took a bit more work. 

I wanted the users to be able to navigate to its language couterpart from wherever they were on the site, so I had to create a relationship between all the posts. This is where Jekyll's front matter became especically handy. 

First thing was to utilize the [_posts][posts] folder to house both english and spanish pages and posts. 

{% highlight ruby %}
_posts
   ├── en
   │   ├── pages
   │   │   ├── 0001-01-01-about.md
   │   │   ├── 0001-01-02-index.md
   │   │   └── 0001-01-03-projects.md
   │   ├── posts
   │   │   └── 0001-01-01-post1.md
   │   └── projects
   │       ├── 0001-01-01-project1.md
   │       └── 0001-01-02-project2.md
   └── es
       ├── pages
       │   ├── 0001-01-01-acerca-de.md
       │   ├── 0001-01-02-entradas.md
       │   └── 0001-01-03-proyectos.md
       ├── posts
       │   └── 0001-01-01-entrada1.md
       └── projects
           ├── 0001-01-01-proyecto1.md
           └── 0001-01-02-proyecto2.md

{% endhighlight %}
{% highlight ruby %}
---
name: post1
lang: en
---
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll’s dedicated Help repository][jekyll-help].

[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com

[posts](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure/ "title" target="_blank")

[jekyll-help]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-help