---
type: posts
layout: default
title: Nested Arrays and Hashes
line: How the heck do I get that back? 
date:  2015-12-03 
categories: coding, ruby, hash, array, nested, loop, looping
name: post8
lang: en
---

This post assumes that you have a general understanging of arrays and hashes. 

Pretty quickly after being introduced to arrays and hashes, we were given problems where the information we were asked to retrieve was nested inside of another array, hash, or array of hases. You imagine it, and we worked on it. One of our instructors made it clear, that we would be coming back to this over and over as the course progressed, so one way or another, we were going to learn this. He was not kidding, so I'm glad that this was one of those concepts that we drilled on to ge. 

I had a hard time with this at first, but with just about anything, the more I worked on these problems, the easier they became. There are plenty of posts, stack overflow answers to nested arrays/hashes and looping to get what we need, but I remember at the time, that those enteries did not make sense, so this is my attemp to make it a bit easier. 

Lets start with an example, this is an array of hashes:

{% highlight ruby %}

harry_potter = [
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone", "year" => 2001, "director" => "Chris Columbus", "gross" => "$974,755,371"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets", "year" => 2002, "director" => "Chris Columbus", "gross" => "$878,979,634"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets", "year" => 2004, "director" => "Alfonso Cuarón", "gross" => "$796,688,549"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire", "year" => 2005, "director" => "Mike Newell", "gross" => "$896,911,078"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix", "year" => 2007, "director" => "David Yates", "gross" => "$942,943,935"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince", "year" => 2009, "director" => "David Yates", "gross" => "$935,083,686"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part I", "year" => 2010, "director" => "Matt Birch", "gross" => "$959,301,070"},
	{"title" => "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II", "year" => 2011, "director" => "Matt Birch", "gross" => "$1,341,511,219"}
]

{% endhighlight%}
Say all I wanted was the movie titles. I can do it the long way

{% highlight ruby %}

harry_potter[0]["title"]
#=>Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
harry_potter[1]["title"]
#=>Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

{% endhighlight %}

or I can write a method to loop through the information

{% highlight ruby %}

harry_potter.each do |movie_title|
   puts movie_title["title"]
end

#=>
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
HHarry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part I
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II

{% endhighlight %}


  

